Add a guide to exporting events to Splunk (#17405)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/management/export-audit-events/splunk.mdx

---
title: Monitor Teleport Audit Events with Splunk
description: How to configure Teleport's Event Handler plugin to send audit logs to Splunk
---

Teleport's Event Handler plugin receives audit logs from the Teleport Auth
Service and forwards them to your log management solution, letting you perform
historical analysis, detect unusual behavior, and form a better understanding of
how users interact with your Teleport cluster.

In this guide, we will show you how to configure Teleport's Event Handler plugin
to send your Teleport audit logs to Splunk. In this setup, the Event Handler
plugin forwards audit logs from Teleport to Splunk's Universal Forwarder,
which stores them in Splunk Cloud Platform or Splunk Enterprise for
visualization and alerting. 

## Prerequisites

> (!docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

Reviewer: This works for OSS and ent right?  I don't think there's anything specific that this only works for ent.

Author: Do plugins also work for OSS? My understanding was that plugins are a commercial feature. If not, we'll need to update all of our plugin guides.

Reviewer: Yes @ptgott , they work for OSS too.  They have some different behavior in that for Access Requests plugins they'll give CLI output instead of a link to the web access requests that are ent only.

  following commands:

  ```code
  $ curl -L -O https://get.gravitational.com/teleport-event-handler-v(=teleport.plugin.version=)-linux-amd64-bin.tar.gz
  $ tar -zxvf teleport-event-handler-v(=teleport.plugin.version=)-linux-amd64-bin.tar.gz
  ```

  Move the `teleport-event-handler` binary into your `PATH`.
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem options="Docker" label="Latest Release ">

  On the host where you are running the Universal Forwarder, execute the
  following command:

  ```code
  $ docker pull public.ecr.aws/gravitational/teleport-plugin-event-handler:(=teleport.plugin.version=)
  ```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem options="Docker" label="From Source">
  You must have Docker Desktop installed on your Universal Forwarder host. 

  Log in to the host and execute the following commands to build the plugin:

  ```code
  $ git clone https://github.com/gravitational/teleport-plugins.git --depth 1
  $ cd teleport-plugins/event-handler/build.assets
  $ make build
  ```

  You can find the compiled binary within your clone of the `teleport-plugins`
  repo, with the file path, `event-handler/build/teleport-event-handler`. Move
  this into your `PATH`.

>   </TabItem>

Author: I think it's useful to include separate instructions for building from source via Docker and `go build`, but you're right that both methods result in a binary and it's misleading to lump the Docker-based build step with the `docker pull` instructions. I've suggested another way to organize these `Tabs`.

|---|---|
| `ca.crt` | Self-signed CA certificate that the Event Handler plugin and the Universal Forwarder will use to validate one another's TLS certificates.|
| `server.crt` and `server.key`| TLS certificate and key for the Universal Forwarder.|
| `client.crt` and `client.key`| TLS certificate and key for the Event Handler plugin.|
| `teleport-event-handler-role.yaml`| `user` and `role` resource definitions for the Event Handler plugin.|
| `fluent.conf`| Fluentd configuration file. We will use parts of this to configure the Universal Forwarder.|
| `teleport-event-handler.toml` | Starter configuration file for the Event Handler plugin.|
| `ca.key` | Not used in this setup. |

### Define RBAC resources

The `teleport-event-handler configure` command generated a file called
`teleport-event-handler-role.yaml`. This file defines a `teleport-event-handler`
role and a user with read-only access to the `event` API:

```yaml
kind: role
metadata:
  name: teleport-event-handler
spec:
  allow:
    rules:
      - resources: ['event', 'session']
        verbs: ['list','read']
version: v5
---
kind: user
metadata:
  name: teleport-event-handler
spec:
  roles: ['teleport-event-handler']

> version: v2

Reviewer 2: Does it matter that there's a version mismatch between these two entities?

Author: Configuration resources are versioned separately, e.g., here are all the versions used in the `master` branch of `gravitational/teleport`:

```
$  grep -REo "type [A-Z][A-Za-z]+SpecV[0-9]+ struct" ./api/types | grep -Eo "V[0-9]+" | sort | uniq -c
   4 V1
  16 V2
  17 V3
   1 V4
   1 V5
```

# user "teleport-event-handler" has been created
# role 'teleport-event-handler' has been created
```

### Enable impersonation of the Event Handler plugin user

In order for the Event Handler plugin to forward events from your Teleport
cluster, it needs signed credentials from the cluster's certificate authority.
The `teleport-event-handler` user cannot request this itself, and requires
another user to **impersonate** this account in order to request credentials.

Create a role that enables your user to impersonate the `teleport-event-handler`
user. First, paste the following YAML document into a file called
`teleport-event-handler-impersonator.yaml`:

```yaml
kind: role
version: v5
metadata:
  name: teleport-event-handler-impersonator
spec:
  options:
    # max_session_ttl defines the TTL (time to live) of SSH certificates
    # issued to the users with this role.
    max_session_ttl: 10h

  # This section declares a list of resource/verb combinations that are
  # allowed for the users of this role. By default nothing is allowed.
  allow:
    impersonate:
      users: ["teleport-event-handler"]
      roles: ["teleport-event-handler"]
```

Next, create the role:

```code

> $ tctl create teleport-event-handler-impersonator.yaml

Reviewer 2: Should we use `-f` consistently throughout the doc?

```

Assign this role to your Teleport user by running the following commands,
depending on whether you authenticate as a local Teleport user or via the
`github`, `saml`, or `oidc` authentication connectors: 

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Local User">

Retrieve your local user's configuration resource:

```code

> $ tctl get users/$(tsh status -f json | jq -r '.active.username') > out.yaml

Reviewer 2: Consider replacing `out.yaml` with a more descriptive name.

Reviewer 2: This assumes `jq` is installed on the workstation. A fair assumption for our users, but an assumption none the less. Maybe note the req, and link to [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/)?

        - access
+       - teleport-event-handler-impersonator
```

Apply your changes:

```code
$ tctl create -f saml.yaml
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="OIDC">

Retrieve your `oidc`  configuration resource:

```code
$ tctl get oidc/myoidc > oidc.yaml
```

Edit `oidc.yaml`, adding `teleport-event-handler-impersonator` to the
`claims_to_roles` section. The claim you will map to this role will depend on
how you have designed your organization's RBAC, but it should be the smallest
group possible within your organization. This group must also include your
user.

Here is an example:

```diff
  claims_to_roles:
    - name: "groups" 
      value: "my-group" 
      roles:
        - access
+       - teleport-event-handler-impersonator
```

Apply your changes:

```code
$ tctl create -f saml.yaml
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Log out of your Teleport cluster and log in again to assume the new role.

### Export the access plugin identity

Like all Teleport users, `teleport-event-handler` needs signed credentials in
order to connect to your Teleport cluster. You will use the `tctl auth sign`
command to request these credentials for the plugin. 

<ScopedBlock scope={["enterprise", "oss"]}>

> The format of the credentials depends on whether you have set up your network to
> give the plugin direct access to the Teleport Auth Service, or if all Teleport
> clients and services connect to the Teleport Proxy Service instead.

Reviewer 2: Since connecting through the proxy is the preferred/suggested configuration, I suggest restructuring this phrasing so that it's seen as the primary option. For example:

```suggestion
The format of the credentials depends on whether you have set up your Teleport
cluster such that all clients and services connect to the Teleport Proxy service,
or to give the plugin direct access to the Teleport Auth Service instead.
```

I'm sure ^ could use some tweaking though.

establishes a reverse tunnel connection to the Auth Service. The plugin uses
this reverse tunnel, along with your TLS credentials, to connect to the Auth
Service's gRPC endpoint.

You will refer to this file later when configuring the plugin.

</ScopedBlock>

Move the credentials you generated to the host where you are running the Event
Handler plugin.

<Admonition
  title="Certificate Lifetime"
>

  By default, `tctl auth sign` produces certificates with a relatively short
  lifetime. For production deployments, you can use the `--ttl` flag to ensure a
  more practical certificate lifetime, e.g., `--ttl=8760h` to export a one-year
  certificate.

</Admonition>

## Step 2/4. Configure the Universal Forwarder

In this step, you will configure the Universal Forwarder to receive audit logs
from the Teleport Event Handler plugin and forward them to Splunk. The Event
Handler sends audit logs as HTTP POST requests with the content type
`application/json`.

We will assume that you assigned `$SPLUNK_HOME` to `/opt/splunkforwarder` when
installing the Universal Forwarder. 

<Details title="Finding your $SPLUNK_HOME">

> To find your `$SPLUNK_HOME`, run the following command to see the location your

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To find your `$SPLUNK_HOME`, run the following command to see the location of your
```

Universal Forwarder service definition, which the init system systemd uses to
run the Universal Forwarder:

```code
$ sudo systemctl status SplunkForwarder.service
● SplunkForwarder.service - Systemd service file for Splunk, generated by 'splunk enable boot-start'
     Loaded: loaded (/lib/systemd/system/SplunkForwarder.service; enabled; vendor preset: enabled)
     Active: active (running) since Fri 2022-10-07 15:57:37 UTC; 2h 18min ago
   Main PID: 1772 (splunkd)
      Tasks: 53 (limit: 2309)
     Memory: 70.8M (limit: 1.8G)
     CGroup: /system.slice/SplunkForwarder.service
             ├─1772 splunkd --under-systemd --systemd-delegate=yes -p 8089 _internal_launch_under_systemd
             └─1810 [splunkd pid=1772] splunkd --under-systemd --systemd-delegate=yes -p 8089 _internal_launch_under_systemd [process-runner]
```

View the file at the path shown in the `Loaded:` field. Your `$SPLUNK_HOME`
will include the filepath segments in `ExecStart` before `bin`.

> 

Reviewer 2: Just a suggestion: We could include an example `cat /lib/systemd/system/SplunkForwarder.service` and show the relevant output here.

</Details>

### Create an index for your audit logs

Create an index for your Teleport audit logs by visiting the home page of the
Splunk UI and navigating to **Settings** > **Indexes**. Click **New Index**.
Name your index `teleport-audit-logs` and assign the **Index Data Type** field
to "Events". 

![Creating an Index](../../../../docs/img/enterprise/plugins/splunk/new-index.png)

The values of the remaining fields, **Max raw data size** and **Searchable
retention (days)** depend on your organization's resources and practices for log
management.

> Click "Save".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click **Save**.
```

To be consistent with styling for other web UI components.

### Create a token for the Universal Forwarder

The Universal Forwarder authenticates client traffic using a token. To generate
a token, visit the home page of the Splunk UI. Navigate to **Settings** > **Data
inputs** In the **Local inputs** table, find the **HTTP Event Collector** row and
click **Add new** 

Enter a name you can use to recognize the token later so you can
manage it, e.g., `Teleport Audit Events`. Click **Next**.

Next to the **Source type** field, click **Select**. In the **Select Source
Type** dropdown menu, click **Structured**, then **_json**. Splunk will index
incoming logs as JSON, which is the format the Event Handler uses to send logs
to the Universal Forwarder.

![Create a Token](../../../../docs/img/enterprise/plugins/splunk/new-token.png)

> Beside **Index** select the `teleport-audit-logs` index you created earlier.

Reviewer 2: Does "Beside **Index**" refer to the "Select Allowed Indexes" text in the screenshot above?

Author: I've made this clearer

---
title: Monitor Teleport Audit Events with Splunk
description: How to configure Teleport's Event Handler plugin to send audit logs to Splunk
---

Teleport's Event Handler plugin receives audit logs from the Teleport Auth
Service and forwards them to your log management solution, letting you perform
historical analysis, detect unusual behavior, and form a better understanding of
how users interact with your Teleport cluster.

In this guide, we will show you how to configure Teleport's Event Handler plugin
to send your Teleport audit logs to Splunk. In this setup, the Event Handler
plugin forwards audit logs from Teleport to Splunk's Universal Forwarder,
which stores them in Splunk Cloud Platform or Splunk Enterprise for
visualization and alerting. 

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- Splunk Cloud Platform or Splunk Enterprise v9.0.1 or above.

> - A Linux host where you will run the Teleport Event Handler plugin and Splunk

Author: I've edited the text to only say "The Teleport Event Handler" instead of using these variations

  Log in to the host and execute the following commands to build the plugin:

  ```code
  $ git clone https://github.com/gravitational/teleport-plugins.git --depth 1
  $ cd teleport-plugins/event-handler/build.assets
  $ make build
  ```

  You can find the compiled binary within your clone of the `teleport-plugins`
  repo, with the file path, `event-handler/build/teleport-event-handler`. Move
  this into your `PATH`.

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem options="From Source" label="Build via Go">

  You will need Go >= (=teleport.golang=) installed.

  Run the following commands on your Universal Forwarder host:

  ```code 
  $ git clone https://github.com/gravitational/teleport-plugins.git --depth 1
  $ cd teleport-plugins/event-handler
  $ go build
  ```

  The resulting executable will have the name `event-handler`. To follow the
  rest of this guide, rename this file to `teleport-event-handler` and move it
  into your `PATH`.

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Generate a starter config file

On the host where you are running the Universal Forwarder and the Event Handler
plugin, execute the following command to generate a sample configuration that we

> will edit later. Replace `mytenant.teleport.sh` with the DNS name of your

Author: I didn't want to include separate addresses for Cloud/Self-Hosted deployments, so I used the Cloud one. Now that we have the `Var` component though, I'll suggest using that here instead.

| `ca.key` | Not used in this setup. |

### Define RBAC resources

The `teleport-event-handler configure` command generated a file called
`teleport-event-handler-role.yaml`. This file defines a `teleport-event-handler`
role and a user with read-only access to the `event` API:

```yaml
kind: role
metadata:
  name: teleport-event-handler
spec:
  allow:
    rules:
      - resources: ['event', 'session']
        verbs: ['list','read']
version: v5
---
kind: user
metadata:
  name: teleport-event-handler
spec:
  roles: ['teleport-event-handler']
version: v2
```

Move this file to your workstation (or recreate it by pasting the snippet above)
and use `tctl` on your workstation to create the role and the user:

```code
$ tctl create -f teleport-event-handler-role.yaml
# user "teleport-event-handler" has been created
# role 'teleport-event-handler' has been created
```

### Enable impersonation of the Event Handler plugin user

In order for the Event Handler plugin to forward events from your Teleport
cluster, it needs signed credentials from the cluster's certificate authority.
The `teleport-event-handler` user cannot request this itself, and requires

> another user to **impersonate** this account in order to request credentials.

Author: In how-to guides, I've been advising against putting links in steps, since that might delay the time it takes to reach the goal of the guide. I've made it clearer that we'll describe impersonation in this section, and added a link to the impersonation guide in the "Next steps" section.

depend on how you have designed your organization's RBAC, but it should be the
smallest group possible within your organization. This group must also include
your user.

Here is an example:

```diff
  attributes_to_roles:
    - name: "groups" 
      value: "my-group" 
      roles:
        - access
+       - teleport-event-handler-impersonator
```

Apply your changes:

```code
$ tctl create -f saml.yaml
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="OIDC">

Retrieve your `oidc`  configuration resource:

```code
$ tctl get oidc/myoidc > oidc.yaml
```

Edit `oidc.yaml`, adding `teleport-event-handler-impersonator` to the
`claims_to_roles` section. The claim you will map to this role will depend on
how you have designed your organization's RBAC, but it should be the smallest
group possible within your organization. This group must also include your
user.

Here is an example:

```diff
  claims_to_roles:
    - name: "groups" 
      value: "my-group" 
      roles:
        - access
+       - teleport-event-handler-impersonator
```

Apply your changes:

```code
$ tctl create -f saml.yaml
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Log out of your Teleport cluster and log in again to assume the new role.

> ### Export the access plugin identity

Reviewer 3: I dont see any -ttl flags on the auth commands, or any mention or reloading them later.  Wouldnt this setup break after twelve hours?  Should we encouraged longer lived certs?  Machine ID might be an option here too

Author: I've added the `--ttl` flag to the `tctl auth sign` command snippets and mentioned Machine ID in the "Next steps" section (as well as the "Next steps" section in the Elastic and Fluentd guides). Eventually, I want to change all of our plugin instructions so they use Machine ID: https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/issues/15062

```

For audit logs related to Teleport sessions, the Event Handler appends routing
information to the URL that our HTTP input configuration does not use. Adding
the `noop` query parameter causes the Event Handler to append the routing
information as the parameter's value so the Universal Forwarder can discard it.

Change `teleport.addr` to the host and port of your Teleport Proxy Service, or
the Auth Service if you have configured the Event Handler to connect to it
directly, e.g., `mytenant.teleport.sh:443`.

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Connect to the Proxy Service">

Assign `teleport.identity` to a path to the identity file you exported earlier,
e.g., `/home/auth.pem`.

Ensure that the Event Handler can read these credentials:

```code
$ chmod +r auth.pem
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Connect to the Auth Service">

Assign `teleport.ca`, `teleport.cert`, and `teleport.key` to the paths of the
TLS credentials you generated earlier. Respectively, these are the certificate
authority, certificate, and private key.

Ensure that the Event Handler can read these credentials:

```code
$ chmod +r teleport.ca teleport.cert teleport.key
```

> 

Reviewer 3: What happened to using the auth.cas, auth.crt, and auth.key method described in the connect to the auth steps previously?

Author: Looks like I got the names of the files mixed up with the paths to the TOML fields in the Event Handler config

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> ### Start the Event Handler

Reviewer 3: Shouldnt we recommend running the Event Handler as a systemd service so it persists reboots?
